phase_6b_walkthrough.md, before:

# Phase 6b: Enterprise Self-Hosted (Jenkins & Nexus) 🏯

In this phase, we simulate an "Enterprise" environment where we own the entire CI/CD stack.
Instead of using Cloud SaaS (GitHub Actions), we deploy our own **Jenkins** server and **Nexus** repository manager on our Kubernetes cluster.

---

## 🏗️ Step 1: Infrastructure Setup

### 1. Install EBS CSI Driver (CRITICAL) 💾
Since you want to use the **"Right Resources"** (Persistent Volumes), we need to install the storage driver on your cluster.
Without this, your pods will stay `Pending` because they can't create disks!

**The Easy Way (Scripted):**
I've created a script to handle the IAM Role and Add-on installation automatically.

Run this:
```bash
chmod +x ops/scripts/install_ebs_driver.sh
./ops/scripts/install_ebs_driver.sh
```
*(This will check your account ID, create the IAM Role if missing, and install the driver.)*

### 2. Infrastructure Setup (Namespace & Storage) 💾
First, create the namespace and the storage class.
**IMPORTANT:** Do not skip this!

```bash
kubectl apply -f ops/k8s/namespace.yaml
kubectl apply -f ops/k8s/storage-class.yaml
```

### 3. Update Certificate ARN & Deploy Apps
Now deploy the apps (which will use the new `gp3` storage).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Resource Optimization Applied:**
> Due to the cluster running on a single small node (t3.medium or similar), I've reduced the Jenkins and Nexus memory requests to **512Mi** each. 
> I also scaled down system components like `coredns` and `aws-load-balancer-controller` to 1 replica to free up "pod slots" on the node.

Run this command to replace the placeholders:
```bash
# Set the ACM ARN found in your AWS Console
export ACM_CERTIFICATE_ARN="arn:aws:acm:us-east-1:406312601212:certificate/9e3aa5f9-1cec-488b-943c-6994089e3775"

envsubst < ops/k8s/nexus/nexus.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
envsubst < ops/k8s/jenkins/jenkins.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

> [!TIP]
> **Troubleshooting: Permission Denied on Volumes?**
> I've added `initContainers` to both `jenkins.yaml` and `nexus.yaml` that automatically run `chown` on the mount points. This fixes the common "Permission Denied" error when mounting EBS volumes as a non-root user.

---

## 🔒 Step 2: Configure Route53 DNS (Shared ALB) ☁️
Since we configured Jenkins and Nexus to join the existing "amazon-group" load balancer, **you do NOT need a new Load Balancer**.
They will share the same ALB as your main app, saving you money! 💰

**How to get the Load Balancer DNS Name:**
Run this command in your terminal:
```bash
kubectl get ingress -n default amazon-ingress -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname}'
```
*(Result: `k8s-amazongroup-629b6c7264-839863946.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com`)*

1.  Go to **Route53** -> **Hosted Zones**.
2.  Create two new records:
    *   **Name:** `jenkins.devcloudproject.com` -> **Value:** (Paste ALB DNS Name). Select "Alias" -> Yes.
    *   **Name:** `nexus.devcloudproject.com` -> **Value:** (Paste ALB DNS Name). Select "Alias" -> Yes.

---

## 🔓 Step 3: Unlock Jenkins & Nexus

### Unlock Jenkins
1.  **URL:** Go to `https://jenkins.devcloudproject.com`
2.  **Initial Password:** `497e1b2074af4579a7ed29d00af0ff05` (Retrieved via `kubectl exec`)
3.  **Setup Wizard:**
    *   Paste the password.
    *   Select **"Install Suggested Plugins"**.
    *   Create your Admin User (e.g., `admin` / `password`).
    *   Save and Finish.

### Unlock Nexus
1.  **URL:** Go to `https://nexus.devcloudproject.com`
2.  Click **Sign In** (top right).
3.  **Username:** `admin`
4.  **Initial Password:** `2e840eff-a549-488c-9f82-bfdcce38b389` (Retrieved via `kubectl exec`)
5.  Follow the wizard (Change password, allow anonymous access for now).

---

## 🛠️ Infrastructure Fixes Applied (Post-Mortem)
During deployment, we encountered and fixed several real-world production issues:
1.  **Storage Engine:** Installed AWS EBS CSI Driver and configured `gp3` StorageClass for dynamic provisioning.
2.  **Volume Permissions:** Added `initContainers` to handle `chown` for Jenkins (UID 1000) and Nexus (UID 200).
3.  **Resource Constraints:** Downsized system components and application requests to fit on a single-node cluster.
4.  **Ingress Group Conflicts:** Patched existing Ingresses (`amazon-ingress`, `grafana-ingress`) that had invalid placeholders, which was blocking the entire ALB Group from reconciling.

---

## ⚙️ Step 4: Configure Jenkins

We need to tell Jenkins how to talk to Kubernetes to spawn "Agent" pods for building our app.

1.  **Install Kubernetes Plugin:** (Should be installed, but check `Manage Jenkins` -> `Plugins`).
2.  **Configure Cloud:**
    *   Go to `Manage Jenkins` -> `Clouds`.
    *   Add a new cloud -> **Kubernetes**.
    *   **Kubernetes URL:** `https://kubernetes.default.svc`
    *   **Kubernetes Namespace:** `devsecops`
    *   **Jenkins URL:** `http://jenkins.devsecops.svc.cluster.local`
    *   **Jenkins Tunnel:** `jenkins.devsecops.svc.cluster.local:50000`
    *   Test Connection.

### 3. Setup NVD API Key (for Security Scans)
Due to NIST rate limiting, the **OWASP Dependency-Check** requires an API key. 
1.  Request a free key here: [https://nvd.nist.gov/developers/request-an-api-key](https://nvd.nist.gov/developers/request-an-api-key)
2.  Once you get it via email:
    *   Go to Jenkins -> **Manage Jenkins** -> **Credentials**.
    *   (global) -> **Add Credentials**.
    *   **Kind:** Secret text.
    *   **Secret:** (Paste your NVD API Key).
    *   **ID:** `nvd-api-key`.
    *   Click **Create**.

### 4. Setup Slack Notifications (Optional)
Receive real-time build updates in your Slack channel.
1.  Go to Jenkins -> **Manage Jenkins** -> **Credentials**.
2.  (global) -> **Add Credentials**.
3.  **Kind:** Secret text.
4.  **Secret:** (Paste your Slack Webhook URL).
5.  **ID:** `slack-webhook`.
6.  Click **Create**.

---

## 📝 Step 5: Create the Pipeline

1.  Click **New Item** on Jenkins Dashboard.
2.  Name: `amazon-clone`.
3.  Type: **Pipeline**.
4.  Scroll to **Pipeline** section.
5.  Definition: **Pipeline script from SCM**.
6.  SCM: **Git**.
7.  Repository URL: `https://github.com/mkdevops89/amazon-clone-devops.git`
8.  Branch Specifier: `*/phase-6b-jenkins`
9.  Script Path: `Jenkinsfile`
10. Click **Save**.

---

## 🚀 Step 6: Run the Build manually
1.  Click **Build Now**.
2.  Click the flashing **#1** in Build History.
3.  Click **Console Output** to watch the magic!

---

## 📦 Step 7: Configure Nexus Repositories
Now that Nexus is running, you need to create the places where your code artifacts and Docker images will "live".

### 1. Create Maven Repositories (for .jar files)
1.  Log in to Nexus as `admin`.
2.  Click the **Settings (Gear icon)** at the top.
3.  Go to **Repository** -> **Repositories**.
4.  **Create the Releases repo:**
    *   Click **Create repository** -> select **maven2 (hosted)**.
    *   **Name:** `amazon-maven-releases`.
    *   **Deployment Policy:** Allow redeploy (for development).
    *   Click **Create repository**.
5.  **Create the Snapshots repo (REQUIRED for your current build):**
    *   Click **Create repository** -> select **maven2 (hosted)**.
    *   **Name:** `amazon-maven-snapshots`.
    *   **Version Policy:** Snapshots.
    *   **Deployment Policy:** Allow redeploy.
    *   Click **Create repository**.

### 2. Create a Docker Repository (for Images)
1.  Click **Create repository** -> select **docker (hosted)**.
2.  **Name:** `amazon-docker-repo`.
3.  **HTTP Connector:** Check "HTTP" and enter port `8082` (Note: You may need to update the Kubernetes Service/Ingress later if you want to push directly via this port).
4.  **Enable Docker V1 API:** Optional.
5.  Click **Create repository**.

### 3. Setup Credentials in Jenkins
To allow Jenkins to push to Nexus:
1.  Go to Jenkins -> **Manage Jenkins** -> **Credentials**.
2.  (global) -> **Add Credentials**.
3.  **Kind:** Username with password.
4.  **Username:** `admin` (or create a specific `deployment` user in Nexus).
5.  **Password:** Your Nexus admin password.
6.  **ID:** `nexus-credentials`.
7.  Click **Create**.

---

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting: "Insufficient CPU" or "Node NotReady"
If your Jenkins build is stuck in `Pending` or your cluster feels laggy:

> [!CAUTION]
> **Single Node Limits:** Your cluster is running on a single AWS node. Kubernetes needs some "breathing room" to manage itself. If you run the App + Monitoring + Jenkins + Nexus + Build Agents all at once, the node will lock up.

### How to free up space for a Build:
If Jenkins says `Insufficient CPU`, run these commands to temporarily "pause" the monitoring stack:
```bash
# Scale down monitoring to 0
kubectl scale deployment -n monitoring --all --replicas=0
kubectl scale statefulset -n monitoring --all --replicas=0

# Scale down the main app to 0
kubectl scale deployment -n default --all --replicas=0
```

### How to bring everything back:
```bash
# Re-scale monitoring
kubectl scale deployment -n monitoring --all --replicas=1 # Or original replica count
kubectl scale statefulset -n monitoring --all --replicas=1

# Re-scale the app
kubectl scale deployment -n default --all --replicas=1
```

> [!TIP]
> **I've optimized your `Jenkinsfile`:**
> I've already updated your `Jenkinsfile` to use very low resource requests (100m CPU). This should allow builds to run even when the cluster is somewhat busy.

Commit message:

docs: add github webhook instructions to phase 6b walkthrough

phase_6b_walkthrough.md, after:

# Phase 6b: Enterprise Self-Hosted (Jenkins & Nexus) 🏯

In this phase, we simulate an "Enterprise" environment where we own the entire CI/CD stack.
Instead of using Cloud SaaS (GitHub Actions), we deploy our own **Jenkins** server and **Nexus** repository manager on our Kubernetes cluster.

---

## 🏗️ Step 1: Infrastructure Setup

### 1. Install EBS CSI Driver (CRITICAL) 💾
Since you want to use the **"Right Resources"** (Persistent Volumes), we need to install the storage driver on your cluster.
Without this, your pods will stay `Pending` because they can't create disks!

**The Easy Way (Scripted):**
I've created a script to handle the IAM Role and Add-on installation automatically.

Run this:
```bash
chmod +x ops/scripts/install_ebs_driver.sh
./ops/scripts/install_ebs_driver.sh
```
*(This will check your account ID, create the IAM Role if missing, and install the driver.)*

### 2. Infrastructure Setup (Namespace & Storage) 💾
First, create the namespace and the storage class.
**IMPORTANT:** Do not skip this!

```bash
kubectl apply -f ops/k8s/namespace.yaml
kubectl apply -f ops/k8s/storage-class.yaml
```

### 3. Update Certificate ARN & Deploy Apps
Now deploy the apps (which will use the new `gp3` storage).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Resource Optimization Applied:**
> Due to the cluster running on a single small node (t3.medium or similar), I've reduced the Jenkins and Nexus memory requests to **512Mi** each. 
> I also scaled down system components like `coredns` and `aws-load-balancer-controller` to 1 replica to free up "pod slots" on the node.

Run this command to replace the placeholders:
```bash
# Set the ACM ARN found in your AWS Console
export ACM_CERTIFICATE_ARN="arn:aws:acm:us-east-1:406312601212:certificate/9e3aa5f9-1cec-488b-943c-6994089e3775"

envsubst < ops/k8s/nexus/nexus.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
envsubst < ops/k8s/jenkins/jenkins.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

> [!TIP]
> **Troubleshooting: Permission Denied on Volumes?**
> I've added `initContainers` to both `jenkins.yaml` and `nexus.yaml` that automatically run `chown` on the mount points. This fixes the common "Permission Denied" error when mounting EBS volumes as a non-root user.

---

## 🔒 Step 2: Configure Route53 DNS (Shared ALB) ☁️
Since we configured Jenkins and Nexus to join the existing "amazon-group" load balancer, **you do NOT need a new Load Balancer**.
They will share the same ALB as your main app, saving you money! 💰

**How to get the Load Balancer DNS Name:**
Run this command in your terminal:
```bash
kubectl get ingress -n default amazon-ingress -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname}'
```
*(Result: `k8s-amazongroup-629b6c7264-839863946.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com`)*

1.  Go to **Route53** -> **Hosted Zones**.
2.  Create two new records:
    *   **Name:** `jenkins.devcloudproject.com` -> **Value:** (Paste ALB DNS Name). Select "Alias" -> Yes.
    *   **Name:** `nexus.devcloudproject.com` -> **Value:** (Paste ALB DNS Name). Select "Alias" -> Yes.

---

## 🔓 Step 3: Unlock Jenkins & Nexus

### Unlock Jenkins
1.  **URL:** Go to `https://jenkins.devcloudproject.com`
2.  **Initial Password:** `497e1b2074af4579a7ed29d00af0ff05` (Retrieved via `kubectl exec`)
3.  **Setup Wizard:**
    *   Paste the password.
    *   Select **"Install Suggested Plugins"**.
    *   Create your Admin User (e.g., `admin` / `password`).
    *   Save and Finish.

### Unlock Nexus
1.  **URL:** Go to `https://nexus.devcloudproject.com`
2.  Click **Sign In** (top right).
3.  **Username:** `admin`
4.  **Initial Password:** `2e840eff-a549-488c-9f82-bfdcce38b389` (Retrieved via `kubectl exec`)
5.  Follow the wizard (Change password, allow anonymous access for now).

---

## 🛠️ Infrastructure Fixes Applied (Post-Mortem)
During deployment, we encountered and fixed several real-world production issues:
1.  **Storage Engine:** Installed AWS EBS CSI Driver and configured `gp3` StorageClass for dynamic provisioning.
2.  **Volume Permissions:** Added `initContainers` to handle `chown` for Jenkins (UID 1000) and Nexus (UID 200).
3.  **Resource Constraints:** Downsized system components and application requests to fit on a single-node cluster.
4.  **Ingress Group Conflicts:** Patched existing Ingresses (`amazon-ingress`, `grafana-ingress`) that had invalid placeholders, which was blocking the entire ALB Group from reconciling.

---

## ⚙️ Step 4: Configure Jenkins

We need to tell Jenkins how to talk to Kubernetes to spawn "Agent" pods for building our app.

1.  **Install Kubernetes Plugin:** (Should be installed, but check `Manage Jenkins` -> `Plugins`).
2.  **Configure Cloud:**
    *   Go to `Manage Jenkins` -> `Clouds`.
    *   Add a new cloud -> **Kubernetes**.
    *   **Kubernetes URL:** `https://kubernetes.default.svc`
    *   **Kubernetes Namespace:** `devsecops`
    *   **Jenkins URL:** `http://jenkins.devsecops.svc.cluster.local`
    *   **Jenkins Tunnel:** `jenkins.devsecops.svc.cluster.local:50000`
    *   Test Connection.

### 3. Setup NVD API Key (for Security Scans)
Due to NIST rate limiting, the **OWASP Dependency-Check** requires an API key. 
1.  Request a free key here: [https://nvd.nist.gov/developers/request-an-api-key](https://nvd.nist.gov/developers/request-an-api-key)
2.  Once you get it via email:
    *   Go to Jenkins -> **Manage Jenkins** -> **Credentials**.
    *   (global) -> **Add Credentials**.
    *   **Kind:** Secret text.
    *   **Secret:** (Paste your NVD API Key).
    *   **ID:** `nvd-api-key`.
    *   Click **Create**.

### 4. Setup Slack Notifications (Optional)
Receive real-time build updates in your Slack channel.
1.  Go to Jenkins -> **Manage Jenkins** -> **Credentials**.
2.  (global) -> **Add Credentials**.
3.  **Kind:** Secret text.
4.  **Secret:** (Paste your Slack Webhook URL).
5.  **ID:** `slack-webhook`.
6.  Click **Create**.

---

## 📝 Step 5: Create the Pipeline

1.  Click **New Item** on Jenkins Dashboard.
2.  Name: `amazon-clone`.
3.  Type: **Pipeline**.
4.  Scroll to **Pipeline** section.
5.  Definition: **Pipeline script from SCM**.
6.  SCM: **Git**.
7.  Repository URL: `https://github.com/mkdevops89/amazon-clone-devops.git`
8.  Branch Specifier: `*/phase-6b-jenkins`
9.  Script Path: `Jenkinsfile`
10. Click **Save**.

---

## 🚀 Step 6: Run the Build manually
1.  Click **Build Now**.
2.  Click the flashing **#1** in Build History.
3.  Click **Console Output** to watch the magic!

---

## 📦 Step 7: Configure Nexus Repositories
Now that Nexus is running, you need to create the places where your code artifacts and Docker images will "live".

### 1. Create Maven Repositories (for .jar files)
1.  Log in to Nexus as `admin`.
2.  Click the **Settings (Gear icon)** at the top.
3.  Go to **Repository** -> **Repositories**.
4.  **Create the Releases repo:**
    *   Click **Create repository** -> select **maven2 (hosted)**.
    *   **Name:** `amazon-maven-releases`.
    *   **Deployment Policy:** Allow redeploy (for development).
    *   Click **Create repository**.
5.  **Create the Snapshots repo (REQUIRED for your current build):**
    *   Click **Create repository** -> select **maven2 (hosted)**.
    *   **Name:** `amazon-maven-snapshots`.
    *   **Version Policy:** Snapshots.
    *   **Deployment Policy:** Allow redeploy.
    *   Click **Create repository**.

### 2. Create a Docker Repository (for Images)
1.  Click **Create repository** -> select **docker (hosted)**.
2.  **Name:** `amazon-docker-repo`.
3.  **HTTP Connector:** Check "HTTP" and enter port `8082` (Note: You may need to update the Kubernetes Service/Ingress later if you want to push directly via this port).
4.  **Enable Docker V1 API:** Optional.
5.  Click **Create repository**.

### 3. Setup Credentials in Jenkins
To allow Jenkins to push to Nexus:
1.  Go to Jenkins -> **Manage Jenkins** -> **Credentials**.
2.  (global) -> **Add Credentials**.
3.  **Kind:** Username with password.
4.  **Username:** `admin` (or create a specific `deployment` user in Nexus).
5.  **Password:** Your Nexus admin password.
6.  **ID:** `nexus-credentials`.
7.  Click **Create**.

---

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting: "Insufficient CPU" or "Node NotReady"
If your Jenkins build is stuck in `Pending` or your cluster feels laggy:

> [!CAUTION]
> **Single Node Limits:** Your cluster is running on a single AWS node. Kubernetes needs some "breathing room" to manage itself. If you run the App + Monitoring + Jenkins + Nexus + Build Agents all at once, the node will lock up.

### How to free up space for a Build:
If Jenkins says `Insufficient CPU`, run these commands to temporarily "pause" the monitoring stack:
```bash
# Scale down monitoring to 0
kubectl scale deployment -n monitoring --all --replicas=0
kubectl scale statefulset -n monitoring --all --replicas=0

# Scale down the main app to 0
kubectl scale deployment -n default --all --replicas=0
```

### How to bring everything back:
```bash
# Re-scale monitoring
kubectl scale deployment -n monitoring --all --replicas=1 # Or original replica count
kubectl scale statefulset -n monitoring --all --replicas=1

# Re-scale the app
kubectl scale deployment -n default --all --replicas=1
```

> [!TIP]
> **I've optimized your `Jenkinsfile`:**

---

## ⚡ Step 8: Automate with GitHub Webhook
Instead of clicking "Build" manually, let's make Jenkins build automatically whenever you push code!

### 1. Configure GitHub (The Sender)
1.  Go to your GitHub Repository: `mkdevops89/amazon-clone-devops`.
2.  Click **Settings** -> **Webhooks** -> **Add webhook**.
3.  **Payload URL:** `https://jenkins.devcloudproject.com/github-webhook/`
    *   *Note: Ensure you use HTTPS to avoid 301 Redirect errors.*
4.  **Content type:** `application/json`.
5.  **Secret:** (Leave empty).
6.  **Which events?** Just the `push` event.
7.  Click **Add webhook**.

### 2. Configure Jenkins (The Receiver)
1.  Go to your Jenkins Job (`amazon-clone`).
2.  Click **Configure**.
3.  Scroll down to **Build Triggers**.
4.  Check the box: **GitHub hook trigger for GITScm polling**.
5.  Click **Save**.

### 3. Verify
Make a small change to a file (like `README.md`) and push it. A new build should start automatically! 🚀
